README for Lab1a: Simpleton Shell
Matthew Kuzdal - ID: 404564296

Installation:
	Simply clone the repository to the desired locations and run the command
	$ ./make
	which will build the shell. You can now run commands from the shell as you please.
	
This directory contains the following files:

	simpsh.c : a c program that acts as a very simple, stripped down shell with basic file
		   access, pipeing, and process forking functionality. The following option descriptions, 
		   limitations, and extra features are described below:

		The following options are the file flags that affect the next file being opened.
		If no other file is opened, these options are ignored. Once a file is open, the
		flags are reset:

			--append : adds the `O_APPEND' flag to the list of oflags.

			--cloexec : adds the `O_CLOEXEC' flag to the list of oflags.

			--creat : adds the `O_CREAT' flag to the list of oflags.

			--directory : adds the `O_DIRECTORY' flag to the list of oflags.

			--dsync : adds the `O_DSYNC' flag to the list of oflags.

			--excl : adds the `O_EXCL' flag to the list of oflags.

			--nofollow : adds the `O_NOFOLLOW' flag to the list of oflags.

			--nonblock : adds the `O_NONBLOCK' flag to the list of oflags.

			--rsync : adds the `O_RSYNC' flag to the list of oflags.

			--sync : adds the `O_SYNC' flag to the list of oflags.

			--trunc : adds the `O_TRUNC' flag to the list of oflags.


		The following options are the file-opening options, which consume all previously
		called oflags when the option is pared:		
		
			--rdonly <file_name> : opens the file `file_name' with the `O_RDONLY'
					       flag. If the file could not be open (i.e., the 
				               file does not exist and the create flag is not
					       set), then this command will be skipped, an
					       error message will be displayed to STDERR and
					       when the function finishes executing, simpsh will 
					       exit with exit code 1.

			--wronly <file_name> : opens the file `file_name' with the `O_WRONLY'
					       flag. Error handling is the same as `--rdonly'. 
			
			--rdwr <file_name> : opens the file `file_name' with the `O_RDWR' flag.
				 	     Error handling is the same as `--rdonly'.

			--pipe : opens a pipe, consuming 2 file descriptors (one for the write
				 end and one for the read end). If an error occurs while opening
			 	 the pipe, then this command will be skipped, an error message 
				 will be displayed to STDERR and when the function finishes 
				 executing, simpsh will exit with exit code 1. 


		The following options are subcommand options:

			--command i o e cmd args : executes the shell command `cmd' with a list
						   of zero or more arguments to the command 
						   denoted by `args'. The command option supports
						   input, output, and error redirection denoted
						   by the three file descriptors `i', `o', and
						   `e' respectively. Command requires at least 4
						   arguments denoted by the input fildes, the
						   output fildes, the error fildes, and the shell 
						   command to run. If there are not enough 
						   arguments an error message will be displayed 
						   to STDERR and the command will be skipped. 
						   If an invalid file descriptor is used as 
						   command arguments (i.e., one that has already 
						   been closed or has not been opened yet) an 
						   error will also be displayed and the command 
						   skipped. 

			--wait : waits for all of the active subprocesses (commands) to finish
				 executing. After each one finishes, the function will 
				 terminate with exit code 1 if any error occured, otherwise
				 the largest error code of all of the commands executed during
				 the subprocesses.


		The following are the miscellaneous options:

			--close N : closes the file with file descriptor `N'. If N is an invalid 
				    file descriptor (i.e., it has already been closed or that 
				    file has not been opened yet) then this command will be 
				    skipped, an error message will be displayed to STDERR and 
				    when the function finishes executing, simpsh will exit 
				    with exit code 1.
	
			--verbose : outputs a line to standard output containing the option as 
				    is is being executed. The verbose flag will only output all 
				    options after and including the verbose flag.

			--profile : outputs the system and user time of each subsequent command
				    following the profile options, and at the end of execution
				    outputs the total user and system time for the parent and
				    children processes
			
			--abort : crashes the shell by raising a segmentation violation causing 
				  a core dump and immediatly exiting the program.
			
			--catch N : catches the signal N, where N is a decimal integer. The shell
				    then exits with status code N and writes a message to stderr.
			
			--ignore N : ignores the signal N.

			--default N : causes the shell to use the default behavior for N.

			--pause : waits for any signal to arrive.
	
	Makefile : utility makefile for the program. The following operations are supported:
	
			make : compiles and build the lab1 exectuable
		
			make check : runs a quick smoke-test on the state of the program and
				     reports success or failure on multiple test. For more
				     information on smoke-test see the section labeled 
				     'Test' below.

			make dist : builds the distribution tarball including the makefile, 
				    c program, and the readme.

			make clean : removes all files created by the makefile, returning
				     the direcotry to its default state.

	README : a file describing the contents of the directory and any information regarding
		 the functionality (limitations and features) and testing of the program.

Test : The test is designed to test basic functionaliy of the program and is split into 
       different tests:

	test1 : Makes sure basic commands (--rdonly) can be called without error.

	test2 : Makes sure that using `--rdonly' does not include any other flags
	        by default (e.g., the --creat flag).

	test3 : Makes sure that using `--wronly' does not include any other flags 
	        by default (e.g., the --trunc flag). 

	test4 : Basic command test including --rdonly --wronly and --command.

	test5 : Tests other basic commands such as wc.

	test6 : Makes sure that the script continues to the next option in the list when
	        an error occurs.
	
	test7 : Makes sure that `--verbose' works properly by making sure all commands before
	        `--verbose' are not printed; only those after.
	
	test8 : Makes sure that --command gives an error when an invalid file descriptor
	        is used.

	test9 : Tests the file flags (--creat and --trunc).

	test10 : Checks the `--pipe' command.

	test11 : Makes sure `--abort' works properly. An abort message should be displayed
	         on the screen.

	test12 : Aggregate test of multiple commands (--pipe, --wait, --close, etc...)
	
	test13 : Makes sure that when a file is closed, an error message appears if this file
	         is later used by a `--command' option.

	* Note : Running `make check' will automatically build the executable regardless of 
		 whether make has been called. It is also worth noting that a test may fail 
		 even if it appears to have proper behavior if it returns the wrong exit code.

 	Each test case can be run individually by calling 'make testN' where N is the test case
	you would like to test. To test the functionality of a specific section (i.e., lab1a or
	lab1b), you can use 'make test1m' where m is the section letter.

Example
To run a command (e.g., $ sort < input.txt > output.txt 2> error.txt) you would use the following syntax:
	
	./simpsh --rdonly input.txt --creat --trunc output.txt --creat --trunc error.txt --command 0 1 2 sort --wait
	
The 0 1 2 denote the open file descriptors to be used as input output and error for the command respectively.
In the example since input.txt was opened first, it will use file descriptor 0, and similarly for output.txt and error.txt
The --wait option must be used to have the shell wait for each of the child processes to finish.
